---
description: Welcome to the DeSciWorld documentation space.
---

# Introducing DeSciWorld

**DeSciWorld**\
/di'saɪ'wɜːld/\
_noun_\
&#x20;   _1._ the global hub of decentralised science\
&#x20;   2\. an onboarding tool; a cultural vehicle\
&#x20;   3\. a technical platform

***

## What is DeSciWorld?



DeSciWorld is an [ecosystem](ecosystem/ecosystem-map.md) consisting of:

* desci.world [<>](ecosystem/terminal/)
  * an information aggregator for the DeSci space since 2021
  * an interactive way to explore the burdgeoning DeSci Space
* science.tech [<>](ecosystem/science.tech/)
  * a suite of technical products, both permissioned and permissionless
  * the Proof of Knowledge (PoK) protocol
  * Research Collectives, the on-chain research lab
* $KNOW <>
  * a decentralised economic system driven by knowledge creation and transfer
  * a potential passive income stream for research contributors
* World of DeSci
  * a diverse and global community event circuit

DeSciWorld can be considered the global hub of decentralised science. We provide a range of tools to inform and empower the (de)scientist. More than just technical, we consider ourselves a cultural force within the space also. We advocate consistently for a more humanity and nature [aligned science](introductory-info/trifecta-of-effective-integration.md) paradigm, eschewing the profit and reputation tempations that come with upholding the status quo.

## The DeSciWorld Mission

### 👥 Social

By promoting and expanding the culture of Decentralised Science, we aim to empower (de)scientists to conduct research on their own terms, without compromise, and to help them effectively capture the value generated by their work.

### ⚙️ Technical

Through the [Proof of Knowledge](ecosystem/science.tech/proof-of-knowledge-pok/) protocol, we will create a knowledge-backed economy in an AI-driven future by placing user-generated-research (UGR) at the heart of our interactions with GPTs. Further, we provide a a sandbox of on-chain tools at science.tech for researchers to utilise with minimal setup or experience required.

## Guiding Values

We can be considered as agnostic ecosystem facilitators for DeSci projects. Committed to a future with equality of opportunity and access, globally, we hope to deliver genuine moments of happiness and wonder to the DeSci ecosystem.

***

## Why are we here?

DeSciWorld was created in September 2021, after the COVID pandemic exposed some fundamental concerns with the scientific paradigm: censorship, bias, illicit public-private partnerships, profiteering, inefficiencies, uninformed populations, uneven distribution of data and medicine, to name a few.

In a time of converging technologies, handing the right to determination of the future of humanity, the keys to the ignition of tools of destruction, the honour of shepherding the great masses of the world to _**any one entity**_ is a folly.&#x20;

We must create the tools that decentralise and distribute the power that is afforded to technology, before that power is absolute. Guided by the mission to unite and empower the decentralized research community, DeSciWorld’s commitment is to facilitate a scientific renaissance in an authentic, transparent, and resilient manner.&#x20;

## Our Evolutionary Timeline \[This has been included in section 3]

Started in September 2021, DeSciWorld began as an idea to bring research funding onchain through Peer-to-Peer (P2P) infrastructure. Originally named "DeSciDAO", it incorporated many of the ideas learned by founder Joshua during his time working in DeFi. The core product design was to connect researchers and funders permissionlessly, even anonymously, to facilitate science that might disagree with official narratives. However, it soon became clear that:

&#x20;   a) the DeSci ecosystem was not large or influential enough to facilitate meaningful capital inflows for research,

&#x20;   b) the nascient DeSci ecosystem was actually quite deep, yet was not doing a good job of advertising itself to the rest of the crypto ecosystem (we had never heard of "DeSci" until a few weeks after launching this protocol).

As such, DeSciDAO pivoted to become DeSciWorld.&#x20;

The objective shifted from creating a P2P funding platform to something much larger and more ambitious in scope: to become the global hub of DeSci, to use our platform to improve participation in this ecosystem, to provide outreach and web3 mechanism design assistance to other projects and generally to become a cultural vehicle for change within academia.

Together, these initiatives present an innovative platform to reshape the landscape of scientific research and how it is funded.&#x20;
